Class Work #7                                   Dec 1

1. Suppose that  X is a binomial random variable with n = 100 and p = 0.1.
(a) Write a formula for the exact probability that  X is less than 4.
(b) Approximate the probability that  X is less than 4.
(c) Approximate the probability that  8 < X < 12

2. The time between the arrival of electronic messages at your computer is exponentially distributed with a mean of 2 hours.
(a) What is the probability that you do not receive a message during a two-hour period?
(b) If you have not had a message in the last four hours, what is the probability that you do not receive a message in the next two hours?

3. Calls to a telephone system follow a Poisson distribution with a mean of 5 calls per minute.
(a) What is the name applied to the distribution and parameter values of the time until the tenth call?
(b) What is the mean time until the tenth call?
(c) What is the mean time between the ninth and tenth calls?


Class work #6                                   Nov 17

1. The number of cracks in a section of interstate highway that are significant enough to require repair is assumed to follow a Poisson distribution with a mean of 2.0 cracks per mile.
(a) What is the probability that there are no cracks that require repair in 5 miles of highway?
(b) What is the probability that at least one crack requires repair in 1/2 mile of highway?

2. Show that f(x) = x/8  for 3<x<5 is a pdf. 
Determine F(x) and the following:
(a) P(X<4)    (b) P(X>3.5)
(c) P(4<X<5)  (d) P(X<4.5)
(e) the mean and variance for X

3. The thickness of photoresist applied to wafers in semiconductor manufacturing at a particular location on the wafer is uniformly distributed between 0.2050 and 0.2150 micrometers.
(a) Determine the cumulative distribution function of photoresist thickness.
(b) Determine the proportion of wafers that exceeds 0.2125 micrometers in photoresist thickness.
(c) What thickness is exceeded by 10% of the wafers?
(d) Determine the mean and variance of photoresist thickness.
